Testing one two three four one two three four
testing testing testing
One two one two one two one two one two one two one two
This
is Friday August 18th Had the pleasure and honor of
chatting with Noel Parsons, who is soon to leave
the Texas A&M Press to become director of the Texas
Tech Press. Noel, to introduce yourself to
someone who might listen to this tape in the future
or read the transcript, describe your background
before you came to A&M. Where did you grow up, what
did mom and dad do, high school, college,
experience before coming to A&M? I grew up in East
Central Oklahoma. I was born in Holdenville and
grew up there and in Ada and Wewoka. graduated from
high school and we woke up and So I was I was pretty
much bound to to that part of Oklahoma and So when
the time came for me to choose a college I Decided to
go to the University of Oklahoma. I really admired
their football team so I went there to school and I
Graduated from there in 1964 and had a commission
through ROTC in the Air Force. Went into the Air
Force for four years. And then when I got out, I
decided that I wanted to do something that would
make some money. My first major had been in Russian
language, and so I didn't figure that was
something I could convert into dollars. So I
decided when I was going to go back to graduate
school, I was going to major in something that I
could use as a profession. And so I selected
journalism. And I thought that after about a year
of journalism school, I decided I didn't want to do
newspaper work. I wasn't cut out to be a reporter. I
could do it, but I didn't really enjoy it. So I went
to my graduate advisor and asked him what I could do
with a journalism degree that didn't involve
newspapers. And he said, well, there's always
magazines or books. An aunt of mine had just
written a book and had it published. And I thought
there was some mysterious process involved where
you had to go to New York City and get involved in the
publishing business there. So I asked him, you
know, how can I get involved in the book business?
It looked attractive. It looked interesting. And
I'd always enjoyed reading books, and my aunt's
experience had been a positive one. So he told me
that the University of Oklahoma Press had a
fellowship program. At the time, they were
selecting two graduates a year. to go through a
year-long program of learning the publishing
business there at the University Press. And that
sounded good, so I applied for that, and I got it.
And I've been in this business ever since. Now, the
director at that time was in? The director was
Shaw,
Ed Shaw. And Savoy Lawtonville had just retired
the year before. Savoy Lawtonville was the real,
he was the archetype of university press
directors. How's his last name spelled?
L-O-T-T-I-N-V-I-L-L-E.
I believe that's it. But I got there a year too late
to work under his supervision, although he was in
and out a lot, and I did meet him. But Ed Shaw was the
director. Mary Stith was the managing editor, one
of the old-time by-the-book editors, just a
wonderful person and wonderful editor. So I was
trained under her. And did that for a year, and then
I got a job with a publisher in Detroit that
published books for the manufacturing industry.
Worked there for about two and a half years, then
went to the University of Illinois Press for two
and a half years, and then came here. And that was
what year? It was 1975. 1975. I started, we moved
here August 18, 1975. As a matter of fact, 25 years
ago today. Exactly. What a coincidence. I hadn't
thought about that. How did you and A&M become
linked up?
Well, I had that job at Illinois, and the director
there who had hired me, Dick Wentworth, had told me
when I started there he couldn't pay me very much.
And so he was really encouraging me, but they
didn't have a big budget for an assistant editor.
So he was encouraging me to look. for jobs
elsewhere, and I really did want to give back to the
South or the Southwest if I could. And so Diggs said
one day, he said, let's go to the Association of
American University Press' convention, which is
being held in Indiana this year, and you can go with
me and we'll camp in the state park there and go to
the meetings. And he said, There's someone there I
want you to meet. This is a fellow. He was the
director of the University of Texas Press for a
number of years. And he's starting a new press in
College Station at Texas A&M University. And
he'll be looking for a staff for that press. And so
he introduced me to Frank Wardlaw. Well, Mary
Stith was at that meeting, too. And she had also
advised Frank that he needed to talk to me, that I
was a person that might fit into his plans for the
staff here. And so Frank and I got together and went
to his room in the hotel where the convention was
being held there. And the first thing he did was ask
me if I wanted a cigar. And he pulled out a big old
black cigar. Fortunately, I was a smoker at the
time, so that wasn't so bad. Then he poured me a big
stiff bourbon, and we sat in his room and talked
about his ideas for what he wanted for the staff
here and what I was planning to do.
So we came to an agreement, and he hired me. Well, he
actually, at that time, he invited me to come to
College Station and take a look at the place. And
this would have been in early 75? That was in June of
75. This all happened pretty quickly. As you
recall that conversation with him, what did it
seem that he was emphasizing about your task and
about the press? Well, Frank was... Frank was...
very task-oriented person. Everybody on the team
had a task, and all those tasks fit together to
accomplish the publication, to accomplish the
goal. And so he wanted someone to be the in-house
copy editor, and that's what he hired me to do. And
that's what I did. And later he let me do a little
acquisition, but he was mainly the acquisitions
editor. Margaret Ingram was the managing editor,
and she did some copy editing too, and then later on
she did a little acquisitions too. But until Lloyd
Lyman came in as director, I really wasn't
involved that deeply in acquiring books. Did he,
in that first conversation, did he give you any
do's and don'ts?
any guidelines that he expected for you and for the
press?
No, I don't think he did. He just, he told me what he
wanted to do here at Texas A&M, and he told me about
all the support he had from the Aggies and the
university.
But we really didn't go into specifics like that.
He had heard that I was a good copy editor. I had Mary
Stith's recommendation, which was really the
best thing I could have had at the time, and Dick
Wentworth's recommendation, too. So I think he
went on that, and we just talked generally about
the university and living in Texas and that kind of
thing. Did he give you any understanding of what
topical areas, subject areas, he hoped to
emphasize with the A&M Press? Well, yeah, he did
say that he did talk about the regional nature of
the press, but he talked about the fact that he
hoped to do some things in publishing regional art
that he hadn't been able to do at the University of
Texas Press. He alluded to some of the problems
he'd had at Texas, but at that time I was young and
naive and I really didn't pay that much attention
to the political pressures that he'd been under.
Did he talk about number of books, titles a year he
hoped to do? Yes. that the press was going to
publish 18 to 20 books a year, and he hoped to keep it
at that level. He didn't want it to go much beyond
that or much under that, because he wanted to
publish really top-rate books, a few of them, so
that the staff could really concentrate on doing a
good job on all of them. It's a good philosophy. I
wish we could have continued that. Did he say
anything about where the press reported and to
whom he was responsible? I
don't recall at that time that we discussed that,
that he talked about that. I will tell you that
after I came here and started work here, I was
tremendously impressed because the first day I
was here, practically, the first or second day, he
took me over to meet Jack Williams in Jack's
offices. And we sat down with the president of the
university, president and chancellor of the
university, and talked about publishing in the
press. And my hair was a little longer then than it
is now. And Jack commented on how maybe I'd want to,
get my hair cut so I'd fit into the looks of the
community. And then Jack also made some comments
about, I told him I was from the University of
Illinois Press, and he made some comments about
marijuana smoking at some of the eastern
universities. But it was actually, it was a
wonderful meeting and I really was totally
impressed with the fact that the president and
chancellor would take the time to meet a junior
editor. Did you get the impression that he knew
much about presses and was interested in the
press? Yes, oh yes, I did. And he and Frank were
perfectly, seemed to fit each other, complement
each other perfectly in that way. Frank had the
technical expertise and Jack had the wherewithal
to see that Frank's ideas and plans were carried
out. Did anybody, did any outsider as you, these
people that had recommended you and so forth, did
any of them give you any of their opinions about the
press and about Wardlaw? Oh, just about Wardlaw.
Of course, the press hadn't really been started
yet. Well, it had been going for about nine months,
eight months, something like that, but hadn't
produced any books yet.
But Dick and Mary especially, Mary Stith, told me
that Frank had been one of the top people in the
Association of American University Presses. I
think he'd been president of the association a
couple of times by that time. And he had, of course,
developed the University of Texas Press into one
of the top presses in the United States by the
mid-'70s. And so his reputation was at the top. I
should tell you that at the same time, that same
summer, at that same meeting, I got an offer from Ed
Shaw. to go back to the University of Oklahoma
Press as managing editor, which would have been
quite a promotion for me. But I chose Texas A&M for
two reasons. Frank Wardlaw and the fact that Frank
was able to go to the Association of Former
Students and find some money to help me move. I
wouldn't have been able to afford the move back to
Oklahoma. But he found the funds to help us move
from Champaign to College Station. And that
really was a major factor. But also important was
the opportunity to work with him and work under him
and see how he ran a press. I'm not going to ask any
other dollar numbers. What was your beginning
salary? Well, I don't remember. My wife probably
could tell you, but I think it was $12,000, but that
may be high. I may be thinking of a couple years down
the road. At Illinois, I was only making five or
six. And when I'd gotten out of the Air Force as a
captain, I was making a lot more than that, and that
had been seven years before. As you got ready to
move down here, what was your perception of Texas
A&M before you arrived? What did you think it was?
Well, going to the University of Oklahoma, I had
some friends, had several friends from Houston. I
used to come down to Houston fairly often. Of
course, we'd always travel down I-45. And as we
passed this part of the country, my friends would
always wave over to the right and say, over there is
that Texas A&M where all those Aggies are. And we
would proceed on down the road to Houston, the
center of the known universe at the time. And so I
really never had much of an opinion of Aggies. I was
told stories and jokes, of course. But I never
really knew anybody who'd gone to Texas A&M at that
time. When we came here and visited in July, my
wife's from Houston and and so we decided to drive
down in July. We stopped in Oklahoma and came on
down through College Station on our way to visit
her folks in Houston and stopped off with Frank and
Rosemary and stayed in the apartments there in the
old Board of Directors building through the press
offices and they showed us around town and and fed
us and we were just really impressed with the
place. I remember we went over to the Grove and
watched a movie and it was awfully hot. The weather
was really terrible that summer and we weren't
used to it, having lived up north for five years. So
it was a memorable experience. As you arrived, and
joined the community and the staff, how did you
feel you were received by the community and by the
press? Oh, it couldn't have been any better. And we
felt that all the time we've lived here. This is a
wonderful community and a warm
community. I think they welcome newcomers with
open arms. no matter where the people come from.
I've always felt that. What about as you were
received by the press? What about as you began
work? Oh, it was like finding a new family. That's
the way the press ran. Frank was the patriarch, and
the rest of us were family members. Describe the
make-believe I didn't know where the press was,
what its quarters were. Describe the quarters for
the press and then the staff. The press was on the
second floor of the old Board of Directors
building, which was the old two-story frame house
with the verandas around the front. I don't know
when it was built, 1912 maybe, 1910, 1912. I've
forgotten now. But it was a beautiful, big,
sprawling house. and of course it had been divided
up into a lot of rooms for suites really for the
board members and they would stay there when they
came for meetings and then after they had been
given their new quarters over in the MSC why the the
building was pretty much empty and when Frank had
come to to establish the press, that was the place
that he wanted to put the press. So Frank and
Rosemary lived on the first floor, and then the
second floor was the press offices. And there was a
stairway in the back up to the second floor. That's
how we got up to the offices.
The front of the building was the main office,
Frank's office, with a big conference table in
there. And then Margaret's and
Ray Grimala's offices were right outside of that,
off the lobby. Spell Grimala. G-R-I-M-A-I-L-A.
Ray was the design manager, designer, production
manager. And he was from Wesleyan University
Press. He'd been there many years, and Frank hired
him away from him. He was an award-winning
designer, and he was responsible for the look of
the books and for the first 10 years or more of the
press. And then the business offices were there
off the main lobby as well. And then you went into a
hallway, and there were some suites down the
hallway, and I had one of those suites with my own
bathroom. And so I sat up there in the back of the
building overlooking the Ward Law's backyard
with the trumpet vine flowers growing over the
trees and the bushes and shrubs, watching the
birds fly. And I could sit there and take a break
from editing manuscripts. And it was a wonderful
place to work. It was quiet and peaceful. I really
enjoyed it. What were your personal goals as you
began? Well, my personal goals were to
just to try to develop a career in publishing. I was
basically copy editing oriented at that time. I
wanted to do some acquisitions and and
grow in the business. But I really wasn't given an
opportunity to do that at that time. But I was
satisfied doing the job that I did, which was copy
editing. And in that role, you reported to who?
Margaret Ingram. She was the first managing
editor. Describe Margaret and her style. Oh,
Margaret was wonderful. She works for the state
now. In 1981, she left the press and went to law
school and got a law degree and went to work for the
state legislature
drafting
laws and checking laws for legal accuracy and so
on. And as far as I know, she's still doing that. She
works in the bowels of the state capitol over there
in Austin. But Margaret was wonderful and a good
friend. And
she was from
Kilgore, not Kilgore, Gilmer. She was from
Gilmer, Texas, East Texas, and she has a wonderful
East Texas twang to her voice. Who else was a copy
editor other than you and her? That's it. We were
the editorial office. We were the editors. All
right, and so each of you were doing the, to start
off, the eight to ten a year that Frank planned
to... The 18... I mean 18. 18 a year. To 20? 18 to 20.
We were doing all of the copy editing ourselves.
And do you remember what was your first, first,
first? My, oh gee. Oh,
I think my first one was in the Montag Oil No, it was
in the economic series. It was by a fellow named
Kopp, and it was on the NAFTA, not NAFTA, on OPEC and
the oil crisis. And I believe that was the first
book I worked on here. And I presume that oil was not
your primary area of emphasis as an
undergraduate, that this might have been off your
beaten track? Oh, no, but a professional copy
editor can edit anything. Okay. That's one of the
things I liked about the job, is that there's such a
variety of interesting material to work with, and
you don't have to specialize in any of it. I really,
I am, I have a single track mind. My mother's always
told me that. And I'm a jack of all trades. And it's
one of the reasons that I was pleased not to go on a
complete graduate school, because I didn't want
to get locked into any one thing. Describe how a
copy editor goes about editing a manuscript
that's been submitted to a university press.
Well, it's not done the same way. Describe then.
In-house, back then, we would take a manuscript
and we'd sit down with it. We'd start reading it.
We'd start correcting it and marking it up. And
after we'd done that, we'd send it to the author or
sit down with the author, if possible, and go
through it once again and go through every change
that we'd made, especially the major changes, and
discuss those with the author and work out any
differences. And the corrections and changes
that we made were all to the Chicago Manual of
Style. And
this was all done in blue pencil on paper. And
so then once we had reviewed the manuscript or the
author had had a chance to review it, then we
delivered it to production. Of course, working
with the illustrations and everything else
involved was part of it, too. Of course, nowadays,
well, it's all done on computer. And I've done some
electronic copy editing, and I can do that, too.
But of course, like anything that computers are
involved with, some of the glamour is gone, I
think. Some of the fun of it. In the olden days, with
the blue pencil, Uh, normally you could do, uh, how
many hundred pages a week? Oh, man. Or a
manuscript. It's been a long time since I've
thought about those things. Or a manuscript. I, we
could, well, if you figure you'd, we had to do, uh,
ten manuscripts a year. Okay. So, uh, in about four
or five weeks, we, it would take us four or five
weeks working pretty much straight through on it.
Of course, then once you had several manuscripts
copyedited, they were in various stages of
production, so then you had to handle proof on
them, checking proof, and and working behind the
authors who were checking the proof, and then
checking their indexes and so on. So it wasn't all
copy editing once you'd gotten started, gotten
the books into the mill, into the pipe.
So I'd say it'd take three to four weeks to edit
an average-sized monograph. It really varied a
lot depending on the density of the writing and
the problems involved with it. There must have
been a comparatively early manuscript you dealt
with that you look back upon as a real important
early step. If so, what was it? Well, let me tell
you, I was the copy editor for Frank Gould on his
book, Common Texas Grasses. Now, the press, when I
got to the press, they had already contracted to
publish and were in the process of publishing his
big book, Grasses of Texas. That had been started
by the agriculture school. And then when Frank
came, he more or less acquired that from the ag
school and said, well, why not let the press
publish it and publish it as a university press
book? But Common Texas Grasses was a condensation
of that book, and that was one that was assigned to
me for copyediting. So I worked with Frank Gould,
and I went through his manuscript and copy edited
it pretty thoroughly and thought I'd done a pretty
good job on it. I was really pleased and I always
enjoyed working with natural history books and
the methodical nature of the material that's
presented, consistency from one account to
another. And so I had done a good job on that one
until I sat down with Frank and he informed me that
Webster's The standard dictionary was not the
standard for botanists to use in the spelling of
grass names. He told me that it was done a certain
way and we had to have it done for that book. Well,
being a copy editor, I was insistent that we stick
with Webster's in the spelling of those names. He
was just as insistent that he was right.
So I took the problem to Frank and explained to
Frank that we had this disagreement, and Frank, in
his very diplomatic way, suggested that I...